I was recently accepted to present a poster, titled "Learning about the motion properties of people and inanimate objects," at The International Conference of Infant Studies (ICIS) in Philadelphia. Below is my initial abstract submission to the conference. 

<h2>Abstract</h2>

The ability to distinguish between animates and inanimates is a cornerstone of cognitive development. Despite the impressive body of research on this topic (for a review, see Rakison & Poulin-Dubois, 2001), little is known about whether and at what age infants use motion to distinguish people from inanimate objects. It is also unclear whether the mechanism or mechanisms that underpin this knowledge are domain-general (e.g., associative learning; Rakison & Lupyan, 2008) or domain-specific (e.g., core systems; Spelke & Kinzler, 2007). Thus, in three experiments we sought to: (1) to replicate the only unpublished study on this topic by Spelke, Phillips, and Woodward (1995) with 7-month-olds (Experiment 1); (2) to examine the developmental origins of this ability in 4-month-olds (Experiment 2); and (3) to examine on what basis 7- and 11-month-olds distinguish people from objects (Experiment 3).  Using Spelke et al.’s (1995) procedure, we habituated 4- (Experiment 2) and 7-month-olds (Experiment 1) to events in which first a cartoon person or object moved behind a central screen and then a second, half-occluded person or object exited stage-right. Infants were then shown alternating Collision and No-Collision test events in which the second person or inanimate object moved following contact (Collision event) or no contact (No-collision event) from the first person or object. We predicted that infants should have looked longer at the No-Collision test event only in the Inanimate Object condition if they recognized that people but not objects are self-propelled. Preliminary analyses revealed that the 4-month-olds, p < .01, and the 7-month-olds, p < .05, looked longer at the No-Collision test event in the Inanimate Object condition than in the People condition. However, the 4-month-olds tended overall to look longer at the No-Collision events, p < .001, suggesting a preference for self-propulsion. Because the 4-month-olds in Experiment 1 failed to recognize that objects and people are governed by different motion constraints, Experiment 4 examined whether 7- and 11-month-olds represent people and object motion based on inborn “core-system” knowledge or a domain-general associative processing. Experiment 3 was identical to the previous experiments except that the people possessed object features and the objects, people feature (Figure 2). Infants were expected to have looked longer when the objects moved in the absence of contact, irrespective of their perceptual features, if they espoused a core system that encoded people and object motion. However, 7- (and, to a lesser extent, 11-month-olds) were expected to have looked longer at the No-Collision event in the People condition—because the people possessed object features and, as such, may have been mistaken for objects—if their motion knowledge is perceptually driven.  Preliminary results revealed that the 7- and 11-month-olds looked longer at the No-Collision test event in the Inanimate Object condition than in the People condition, both p’s < .005. However, and similar to the 4-month-olds in Experiment 2, the 7-month-olds preferred the No-Collision test event to the Collision event, p < .05. This research has implications for theories that discuss infants’ developing knowledge about people and object motion.
